
SHEPHERD WRITEUP: draft-ietf-ipsecme-iptfs-08

    (1) What type of RFC is being requested (BCP, Proposed Standard, Internet
    Standard, Informational, Experimental, or Historic)? Why is this the proper
    type of RFC? Is this type of RFC indicated in the title page header?

Proposed Standard

    (2) The IESG approval announcement includes a Document Announcement
    Write-Up. Please provide such a Document Announcement Write-Up. Recent
    examples can be found in the "Action" announcements for approved documents.
    The approval announcement contains the following sections:

    Technical Summary:

This document describes a mechanism for aggregation and fragmentation of IP
packets when they are being encapsulated in ESP payload. This new payload type
can be used for various purposes such as decreasing encapsulation overhead for
small IP packets; however, the focus in this document is to enhance IPsec
traffic flow security (IP-TFS) by adding Traffic Flow Confidentiality (TFC) to
encrypted IP encapsulated traffic. TFC is provided by obscuring the size and
frequency of IP traffic using a fixed-sized, constant-send-rate IPsec tunnel.
The solution allows for congestion control as well as non-constant send-rate
usage.

    Working Group Summary:

Various aspects of the document were discussed and debated, with multiple
revisions incorporating the results. There was no controversy though, and there
is good WG consensus.

    Document Quality:

At least one implementation will be open sourced, with interest by others in
implementing. There were multiple thorough reviews by experts in the WG.

    Personnel:

    Who is the Document Shepherd?

XXX

    Who is the Responsible Area Director?

Benjamin Kaduk.

    (3) Briefly describe the review of this document that was performed by the
    Document Shepherd. If this version of the document is not ready for
    publication, please explain why the document is being forwarded to the IESG.

XXX

    (4) Does the document Shepherd have any concerns about the depth or breadth
    of the reviews that have been performed?

None.

    (5) Do portions of the document need review from a particular or from
    broader perspective, e.g., security, operational complexity, AAA, DNS, DHCP,
    XML, or internationalization? If so, describe the review that took place.

A transport area review was given, and the resulting comments addressed to the
reviewers satisfaction.

    (6) Describe any specific concerns or issues that the Document Shepherd has
    with this document that the Responsible Area Director and/or the IESG should
    be aware of? For example, perhaps he or she is uncomfortable with certain
    parts of the document, or has concerns whether there really is a need for
    it. In any event, if the WG has discussed those issues and has indicated
    that it still wishes to advance the document, detail those concerns here.

None.

    (7) Has each author confirmed that any and all appropriate IPR disclosures
    required for full conformance with the provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79 have
    already been filed. If not, explain why?

Yes.

    (8) Has an IPR disclosure been filed that references this document? If so,
    summarize any WG discussion and conclusion regarding the IPR disclosures.

No.

    (9) How solid is the WG consensus behind this document? Does it represent
    the strong concurrence of a few individuals, with others being silent, or
    does the WG as a whole understand and agree with it?

Well reviewed by many active WG members, consensus is solid.

    (10) Has anyone threatened an appeal or otherwise indicated extreme
    discontent? If so, please summarise the areas of conflict in separate email
    messages to the Responsible Area Director. (It should be in a separate email
    because this questionnaire is publicly available.)

No.

    (11) Identify any ID nits the Document Shepherd has found in this document.
    (See http://www.ietf.org/tools/idnits/ and the Internet-Drafts Checklist).
    Boilerplate checks are not enough; this check needs to be thorough.

None.

    (12) Describe how the document meets any required formal review criteria,
    such as the MIB Doctor, YANG Doctor, media type, and URI type reviews.

N/A.

    (13) Have all references within this document been identified as either
    normative or informative?

Yes.


    (14) Are there normative references to documents that are not ready for
    advancement or are otherwise in an unclear state? If such normative
    references exist, what is the plan for their completion?

No.

    (15) Are there downward normative references references (see RFC 3967)? If
    so, list these downward references to support the Area Director in the Last
    Call procedure.

No.

    (16) Will publication of this document change the status of any existing
    RFCs? Are those RFCs listed on the title page header, listed in the
    abstract, and discussed in the introduction? If the RFCs are not listed in
    the Abstract and Introduction, explain why, and point to the part of the
    document where the relationship of this document to the other RFCs is
    discussed. If this information is not in the document, explain why the WG
    considers it unnecessary.

No.

    (17) Describe the Document Shepherd's review of the IANA considerations
    section, especially with regard to its consistency with the body of the
    document. Confirm that all protocol extensions that the document makes are
    associated with the appropriate reservations in IANA registries. Confirm
    that any referenced IANA registries have been clearly identified. Confirm
    that newly created IANA registries include a detailed specification of the
    initial contents for the registry, that allocations procedures for future
    registrations are defined, and a reasonable name for the new registry has
    been suggested (see RFC 8126).

All required reservations are made (a notification message state type in IKEv2),
and the newly created registry is adequately documented.

    (18) List any new IANA registries that require Expert Review for future
    allocations. Provide any public guidance that the IESG would find useful in
    selecting the IANA Experts for these new registries.

The document creates a registry for a sub-type of the new AGGFRAG ESP payload to
allow for future expanded uses.

    (19) Describe reviews and automated checks performed by the Document
    Shepherd to validate sections of the document written in a formal language,
    such as XML code, BNF rules, MIB definitions, YANG modules, etc.

N/A.

    (20) If the document contains a YANG module, has the module been checked
    with any of the recommended validation tools
    (https://trac.ietf.org/trac/ops/wiki/yang-review-tools) for syntax and
    formatting validation? If there are any resulting errors or warnings, what
    is the justification for not fixing them at this time? Does the YANG module
    comply with the Network Management Datastore Architecture (NMDA) as
    specified in RFC8342?

N/A.
